Thank you.
Good afternoon.
Let's go exploring, shall we?
But first, by way of introduction,
what is AV Foundation?
AV Foundation is Apple's foundational
Objective-C framework for
processing timed audiovisual media.
It made its first
appearance in iPhone OS 2.2,
at that time with classes for the
processing only of audio media.
But even then,
you could tell by the name with the V in
it that we had vast plans for expansion.
And in fact, in iOS 4,
we did expand the framework vastly
to cover timed audiovisual media,
not just audio media, including playback,
capture, editing, export, re-encoding,
and even media sample
processing at the low level.
We've continued to enhance
the framework in iOS 5,
and now we've brought it to
the desktop as well in Lion.
One of the features of AV Foundation is
that it's well integrated with core
technologies of both platforms,
iOS and Mac OS X.
It's designed to fit snugly
on top of core audio,
core media, core animation,
and foundation.
And because its dependencies are
in common across the two platforms,
its model is also in common
on both Mac OS X and iOS.
It offers the same classes with only
a few minute differences between the
two platforms and the same model for
dealing with timed audiovisual media.
So you have the opportunity
by adopting AV Foundation,
whether you build applications
for the desktop or for the
mobile devices or for both,
for your code for dealing with
timed audiovisual media to be in
common across the two platforms.
Here's our proposition to you today.
This is the media-centric
framework that we're putting
the bulk of our effort into.
And it's the set of APIs that the
majority of our apps are using.
So here's a consideration for you.
For your new applications,
adopting AV Foundation for
timed audiovisual media,
and for your existing applications,
making a transition to
this framework as well.
We're going to cover the full breadth
of the framework in several sessions
over the course of today and tomorrow.
In this session,
we're going to cover primarily
inspection and playback.
And I'm going to turn
things over to my colleague,
Simon Goldrei,
who's going to explore those with you.
Thanks.
Thanks, Kevin.
Many of you here have been developing
on Mac OS X for some years now.
You've both developed and
deployed wildly successful media
applications for the platform.
You've heard that AV Foundation is new,
back on the Mac, in Mac OS X Lion,
and you've come here to discover its
suitability for your media application.
The other half of you have been
developing for iOS these last few years.
And you were here in this session
rediscovering AV Foundation last year.
You too have developed
some really innovative,
wonderful media applications
for this mobile platform.
And now you'd like to learn
what the new features are,
what's new in iOS 5 that we've
brought to AV Foundation.
What we all strive for,
what we all desire from
these applications is that
they remain responsive,
robust, and efficient.
I'm Simon Goldrei, and I'm part of the
Media Systems team at Apple.
And over the next short 15
minutes that we have together,
I would like to introduce to you one
of the core concepts of AV Foundation.
How do we facilitate these goals of a
robust and efficient media application?
What are the protocols and interfaces
that AV Foundation provides
that support these goals?
Now,
while we're going to survey the full set
of classes that AV Foundation provides,
I'm going to only focus on those
that provide media inspection and
discovery facilities and media playback.
But last, and certainly not least,
I'll introduce you to some
of the new APIs that we've
been able to provide in iOS 5,
as well as the desktop.
So let's begin.
The first thing is
where is AV Foundation?
AV Foundation on iOS sits above the
dependent frameworks of core audio,
core media, and core animation,
but it sits below the
application toolkits of
UIKit and Media Player Framework.
At this foundational level,
AV Foundation is able to provide your
media application a much richer set of
API than Media Player Framework can,
as well as a much more tightly
integrated and greater opportunities
for runtime efficiency.
Of course,
the best efficiency that we now are
able to provide is a common media
framework between the two platforms.
For the first time,
we've got a common media playback API,
as well as a rich set of API,
for both iOS and Mac OS X.
And on Mac OS X, AV Foundation sits in
much the same place.
Again, above the dependent frameworks,
but below the application toolkit.
So when to use AV Foundation?
AV Foundation provides this
really rich media API set.
And we've covered the full gamut of
media operations that you may desire.
And we've made it really easy for
you to adopt it in your application
by providing separate interfaces for
each aspect of a media framework.
In fact,
by providing separate interfaces,
we've been able to separate
the operations for,
say, just media inspection from
the much more involved,
requiring much more overhead,
set of operations that require to
prepare a media resource for playback.
AV Foundation supports five key
areas of media play-- media playback.
Oh, sorry, media API.
The first key area is media inspection,
media discovery.
What's inside your media resource?
Next, there's a playback and
presentation set of classes.
And these provide a really
customizable set of API.
You get to control playback behavior.
You get to control playback presentation.
There exists a set of
composition classes.
Composition classes
expose to you editing API,
editing facilities.
They allow you to combine segments
from multiple media resources,
The goal is to create a new media
platform that can integrate different
segments of media within those
resources and then compose them
both temporally as well as spatially.
There exists a set of export API.
This allows you to transcode your
media and support a vast array of
codexes output for your application.
And lastly, and certainly not least,
there's a set of Capture API.
And the Capture API allow you to provide
fine-grained control over the cameras
in both your iOS handheld devices
as well as the desktop environment.
We provide you the ability to control
image attributes about what you capture
and persist this image stream to disk.
So this rich media API that is
common to both iOS and Mac OS X.
It's 64-bit native and hardware
acceleration comes standard.
There's absolutely nothing
further for you to adopt.
We have an advanced video render pipeline
that is GPU-backed from the time of
decode all the way through to display.
And to do this,
we've been tightly integrated
with Core Animation.
Before we go any further,
what are the challenges
of using time media?
What makes this so difficult?
Time Media Resources,
as I'm sure you're now all very aware,
are often gigabytes in size.
They take time to download
from remote resources.
They take time to decode and parse.
In designing AV Foundation,
we've specifically sought not to
obscure this reality from you,
the programmer.
AV Foundation will only perform
the operations necessary to
support your specific API requests.
In addition to your requests,
we'll coordinate with a dynamic,
lively playback environment that is able
to mutate objects beyond your control.
And we do all this while providing
a set of protocols and interfaces,
which we'll discuss in
more detail shortly,
which support you and your development
in remaining responsive and efficient.
Let me give you a concrete example.
Suppose you're working with
a media resource that does
contain summary information.
In that case, it's all rather convenient.
Ask for the duration of this resource.
AV Foundation will download just enough
data to find the summary information
and return to you the answer duration.
But things are not
always this convenient.
You may find that your media resource
does not contain summary information,
in which case,
when you request the value of duration,
AV Foundation needs to download the
entire media resource and only then
return to you the value of duration.
You do not want your media
application to be unresponsive
during this lengthy period of time.
In fact, you would like your media
API to help facilitate,
to direct you towards a
responsive user experience.
So, let me take this opportunity
with you together to explain,
to introduce you to the
classes and protocols that we
provide in AV Foundation that
help us meet these goals.
Albert Einstein once quipped that
the only reason for time is so that
everything doesn't happen at once.
And while I don't disagree,
I really think that some things
best happen concurrently.
In AV Foundation,
we try to like to have these
two notions of media models,
the static and dynamic.
The static models are used for
media inspection and discovery.
You make requests on them,
reload the data, and once they're loaded,
the values of these
properties don't change.
The dynamic objects, on the other hand,
are part of a lively
playback environment.
You observe them as they mutate
within the playback environment.
To benefit from this useful
distinction of static versus dynamic,
inspection versus playback,
you are to request values of
static models and await loading
of values asynchronously.
And for dynamic models,
you use key value observing
where it's offered.
On iOS,
there's an additional consideration.
your media operations can be interrupted.
They can be interrupted
by telephone calls,
by FaceTime requests.
So you need to be prepared.
Additionally, the shared media services
on iOS can be reset.
In order to avoid these
services being reset,
you should be considerate.
You need to share these media
resources in an asynchronous manner.
Fortunately, to make this really easy,
there's a protocol for that.
Let's now survey the core playback
classes present in AV Foundation.
It starts...
with the AVR set.
The AVR set is a model for
the entire media resource.
You request values on AV asset
using a protocol called
AV asynchronous key value loading,
which I'll describe in
more detail shortly.
You might request of an AV asset
its collection of tracks,
in which case AV Foundation will
download all the data necessary
in order just to specify,
in order to just answer this one request.
We'll populate the collection of
AV asset tracks and return this to you.
and AV Asset Track is a static
model for the single media stream
within a time media resource.
All of these classes
[Transcript missing]
If your media application
intent is just to perform media
inspection and media discovery,
these are all the classes
you need to worry about.
But let's now expand your application
scope to include playback.
Let me introduce you to the AV Player.
A sophisticated media
controller for playback.
And by sophisticated,
I mean that it's customizable.
You have control over playback behavior.
But in and of itself,
AV Player and AV Asset are not
all you need to achieve playback.
You need a model for the
AV asset during playback.
And for that, let me introduce you
to the AV player item.
a model for the AV asset for the
entire media resource during playback.
AV Player Item is an example of
one of these dynamic model objects.
You add yourself as an observer
using foundations and a
key-value observing interface.
And you want to add yourself as
an observer to an AV player item
before you associate it with an
AV player because as soon as you do,
it's part of the active
playback environment.
AV Foundation will again download
all the data necessary to
prepare this item for playback,
populate the collection
of AV player item tracks,
and finally make that player
item ready for playback.
You want to observe these changes.
An AV player item track
is a model for a single media stream,
or an AV asset track, during playback.
Let's explore some more and take
a look at the first of these,
the AV asset.
The AV asset is inspectable
via the AV asynchronous
key value loading protocol.
It models the entire media resource.
You don't instantiate
an AV asset directly,
but rather you instantiate
one of its subclasses,
the AV URL asset.
And you can provide an
NSURL for this purpose.
What's important to note is
that an AV asset in this state,
in this newly initialized state,
is not ready for any particular task.
You haven't loaded any of the
values for any of its properties.
An AV asset provides lots of information
about the whole media resource,
the collection of tracks, the lyrics,
possibly the duration,
but it also provides four properties
which are particularly useful.
It tells you what the
AV asset is good for,
what you can do with it,
what its utility is.
An AV asset may be exportable,
composable, readable, that is,
can you get samples from it, and last,
playable.
AV Foundation supports a rich set
of modern and relevant media codecs,
and it's through the playable property
that you discover if AV Foundation is
able to service this asset for playback.
Let's take a look at an example
of how you would load the
playable property on an AV asset.
It starts off with allocating
a collection of properties that
we're interested in loading.
In this case, it's just one,
the playable property.
We use the method from
the AV asynchronous key
value loading protocol,
load values asynchronously for keys,
provide this collection,
and then provide a completion handler,
which is a block.
Within the block,
when the loading operation
has succeeded or progressed,
we get the value of the status
for the loading operation.
Then we switch over the possible values.
Possible values may be loaded, failed,
or for the sake of brevity, canceled.
Ideally, if everything worked out nicely
and the value of the playable
property has indeed been loaded,
we end up here inside
the switch statement.
In which case,
all we need to do now is enable
our UI for our user to select
that AV asset for playback.
What is important to note here is
that this is an asynchronous loading.
It's occurring on some arbitrary queue.
If you want to perform
user interface operations,
you need to move execution
back to the main queue.
Let's return to our class
collection here and drop down one
level into the AV asset track.
The AV asset track,
another static model object,
is also inspectable via
the AV asynchronous key
value loading protocol.
And it models the static state of a
single media stream within the resource.
In this little coding example
for obtaining the collection of
AV asset tracks within the resource,
I've chosen to first test the
status and then progress further and
continue with the AV asynchronous
key value loading protocol,
loading the values
asynchronously for keys.
Each AV asset track is
of a single media type.
It details information such
as the format description,
the frame rate of the media stream,
data rate, language tagging,
and some sundry metadata.
Returning to our class collection,
class diagram,
let's jump to the other side and
focus on the media controller,
the AV Player.
The AV player, because it's part of the
dynamic playback environment,
is observable via NSKValue observing.
It's a media controller with just
a few AV player item conveniences.
You instantiate an AV player by
typically providing an AV player item.
AV Player is also the
object for observing time.
You observe time to implement
a customized scrubber
UI or transport control.
But you don't use key value
observing for observing time,
because time,
as it progresses through playback,
is a constantly changing value.
It's not a discrete transition
from value A to value B.
So in AV Player,
we provide two interfaces
for observing time.
The first of which is the
periodic time observer,
and the second of which is
the boundary time observer.
The Periodic Time Observer allows you
to specify a single interval of time.
As each single interval of
media time is progressed,
or is traversed through normal playback,
you'll get a callback.
The Boundary Time Observer
is a little different.
Instead,
you provide a collection of points of
media time within the media resource.
And as each of these points in time
are traversed through normal playback,
you'll get a callback.
Your block will be invoked.
Let's take a look now at a little
coding example of how you might
implement a scrubber UI using
the periodic time observer.
It starts off, well,
I've defined two methods,
set up transport UI and a cleanup method.
And it starts off with adding a
periodic time observer for an interval.
And I provide a single interval,
a nominal one, of say half a second.
That's reasonable.
That gives us enough
fidelity in our scrubber UI.
We provide a dispatch queue where
we want to get the call back on.
In this case,
I'm going to be doing a lot of UI,
so I've chosen the main queue.
And then I provide a block that
is invoked after each successive
time interval is traversed.
In this nice, simple example,
we move the playhead over
half a second's worth.
And lest we forget,
we have a cleanup method which
removes the time observer from the
player and releases the reference
count that we have over the token
that was returned to us earlier.
Returning to the classes again,
let's now look at the central object,
the AV player item.
AV Player Item.
AV Player Item is one of
these dynamic model objects.
It's your dynamic model of an entire
media resource during playback.
What's useful to note is that
you can create many AV player
items with a single AV asset.
You can also instantiate an AV player
item with an NSURL instance directly.
AV Player Item provides
a bunch of useful tools.
The first of which is that
it gives you properties,
property values about your
media resource that are only
discernible during playback.
For example, a streaming resource,
you can only learn about
the duration at playback.
It provides the collection of tracks,
the presentation size, and you in iOS 5,
the ability of a player item to play
while fast-forwarding or fast-reversing.
AV Player Item is also your
object for manipulating time.
It's how you can seek to a specific time,
step by a count, that is step by a single
frame or a single sample,
and specify a forward playback end
time and a reverse playback end time,
that is when playback will cease
when playing forward and when it
will cease playing in reverse.
AV Player Item also provides hints,
indications on how playback is going,
the ability or the likelihood
of playback likely to keep up,
whether the playback
buffer is full or empty,
and what the set of loadable
and syncable time ranges are.
AV Player Item is also your guide to see
how the playback environment is going.
It gives you information about services.
It gives you access to the network
access log and the network error log.
And it gives you a
property called status.
And status is your indication
for the eligibility for a
player item for playback,
whether AV Foundation is likely to
service this player item for playback.
It also gives you a hint as to
when the shared media services
may have been terminated.
Possible values for status are unknown,
ready for playback, or failed.
Let's take a look now in code on
how you would add yourself as an
observer and observe the status
property on an AV player item.
It starts by adding observer
with an observation context.
And we're interested in the new option,
the new value that we transition to.
Next, we override the NSObject method,
observe value for keypath.
We check to see if the
observation context is the same
as the one we provided earlier.
Get the reference to the item,
get a reference to the status,
switch over the possible
values of status,
and if everything worked out just fine,
we arrive here where the
item is ready to play.
The only thing left to do now that
we know that the item is eligible
for playback is to message our
player with the message "Play."
Let's drop down one level
into the AV Player Item track.
AV Player Item Track is your model for
that single media stream during playback,
the AV Asset Track during playback.
It provides two properties,
the first of which,
a mutable property called enabled,
gives you the ability to disable a
single AV player item track for playback.
We'll discuss why that
might be useful in a moment.
It also provides a reference
to the AV asset track that
backs the AV player item track.
The enabled property is
useful for disabling a player
item track for playback.
For example,
if you have an audio-visual resource,
you might want to disable the video
tracks so that the audio-visual
resource plays back as audio only.
And this is particularly useful on iOS so
that your audio-visual resource is still
eligible for playback in the background.
Let's take a look now at how
you might disable an AV player
item track for playback.
Again, it starts off with adding observer
for the tracks property on the
AV player item so that we get
the full collection of tracks.
We override the observe
value for key path method,
check to see if the observation
context is the same,
obtained the reference to the tracks
and iterate over each track in turn.
As we iterate over each one,
we get the reference to the
AV asset track that backs it,
ask for its media type,
and check to see if the
media type is of type video.
If it is, disable that AV player
item track for playback,
and we end up with an audio
and audio-visual resource with
just the potentially only audio
tracks eligible for playback.
So, what's the recipe for playback
in just four easy steps?
The first of which is create
your AV URL asset instance.
Next, load asynchronously using
the AV asynchronous key value
loading protocol the tracks.
Now that you've done this,
you can create your AV player item.
And finally,
you can either create your AV player
with this item or replace the
current item with this item.
Now,
I've shown you all the core classes for
playback that AV Foundation provides.
But since iOS 4,
we've introduced a new media controller,
the AVQ Player.
The AVQ Player, unlike an AV Player,
as you're probably guessing right now,
not only lets you manage a single
AV Player item to AV Player relationship,
But multiple AV player item to a
single controller relationship.
Again, much like AV player,
any AV player items that are
associated with the AV queue player
will be prepared for playback.
As soon as you associate them,
All the data necessary in order
to prepare those items for
playback will be downloaded by
AV Foundation on your behalf.
So...
An AVQ player is not a playlist model.
The AVQ player will prepare all
the media resources that are
associated with it for playback.
But what an AV cue player does
provide is a mechanism for
gapless audio item transition.
It's also your mechanism for obtaining
asset or AV player item looping.
Remember, we can create many AV player
items with a single AV asset,
and then looping is just enqueuing
multiple of these AV player items
into a cue player and letting
it progress from item to item.
You instantiate an AV cue player,
typically with a collection
of AV player items.
Now, I've told you that it's
not a playlist model.
It's not a playlist controller.
So how might you implement a
playlist using the AV cue player?
Before we dive into the code,
let's have a look at a nice,
simple graphical representation
of how this is all going to work.
On the left-hand side,
we've got a collection of lifeless,
Persistible AV Assets.
They're gray.
They don't have any color.
Sorry, that was on the left-hand side.
On the right-hand side,
we've got an AVQ player already
populated with ready-to-play,
colorful AV player items.
The story goes like this.
An AV player item finishes playback.
The current item is the one
that's underneath the triangle.
The item finishes playback,
and we pop off the
collection of AV assets,
the next AV asset that
we want to enqueue.
We load the value of tracks
using the AV asynchronous
key value loading protocol.
And once that's been done,
we can create our AV player item from it.
We enqueue the AV player item,
and AV Foundation will download
all the data necessary in order
to prepare that item for playback,
and it becomes ready for playback.
The lifecycle continues.
An AV player item is finished playback.
A new AV asset is dequeued.
We ask for the tracks.
We create an AV player item.
We enqueue it.
And AV Foundation prepares that
AV player item for playback.
Now that you've got a good
graphical image in your minds and
how this is all going to work,
let's take a look at the code.
It starts off with our
resurrection from disk of the
lifeless collection of AV assets.
It's in an NSMutable array.
We'd like to populate our
AVQ player with just enough items
to maintain seamless playback.
Of course,
the first thing that we have to
do as we enqueue or dequeue an
AV asset is we check to see what the
status of the tracks property is.
Now, for brevity and keeping everything
nice and simple on my slide,
I'm just going to check what the
status is of the tracks property.
But in reality, in your code,
you'll have to use the
AV asynchronous key value loading
protocol to load the tracks.
I've chosen the number three here,
which will work in most cases,
but is by no means a magic number.
Next up,
we observe the current item because
it's part of the playback environment,
and we provide an observation context.
We observe value for keypath,
check to see the observation context is
the same as the one we provided earlier.
Obtain the last, or reference to the last
item in the AVQ player.
pop off the next AV asset
from our collection.
Again, check the status for tracks or,
in your code, you'll load asynchronously
the value for keys tracks.
Test to see if it actually
is loaded and if it is,
create an AV player item with it.
Finally,
we insert the AV player item we've
just created into the AV queue
player because we have the last
item reference that we had before.
We can specify to enqueue after it.
So I've shown you all the
classes used for playback,
and I've introduced the new one
that we've introduced since iOS 4.
But I haven't yet shown you how
to display any of this on screen.
And, well, that's only because I didn't
have enough space in my slide.
And so I'd now like to introduce
you to the AV Player Layer.
The AV Player Layer
is your presentation object.
It's how you display stuff on screen.
It's a part of the playback classes,
so it's observable.
And you attach your AV player layer to,
on iOS, an instance of a UI view,
on the desktop, on a Mac OS X,
an NS view that wants layer,
or on either platform,
An arbitrary CA layer
from some hierarchy.
You typically instantiate an
AV player layer with an AV player.
There are two properties that I'd
like to share with you to discuss
with you about AV Player Layer.
The first of which
is ready for display.
Ready for display is an observable
property which you observe to see
when the first sample is populated
inside your AV player layer.
When your AV player layer
has some contents that's
worth displaying on screen,
you use ready for display to ensure that
your AV player layer doesn't leave any,
you know, voids,
black boxes inside your user interface.
Once ready for display, achieves a value,
mutates to a value of yes,
you're now ready to open the
red curtain on your content
and display it to your user.
No glitches, no black boxes.
The next property I'd like
to show you is video gravity.
There are many ways that you
can display your audiovisual
content within an AV player layer.
You can
Maintain aspect ratio and keep
all the content inside the
extents of the AV player layer.
You can stretch your content so that
it fills the extent of your AV player
layer but not maintain aspect ratio.
And lastly, you can fill the extents
of your AV player layer
and maintain aspect ratio,
but some content clipping may occur.
Let me take this opportunity to
summarize the key points on how
to use AV Foundation efficiently.
How do you achieve our original
goals of building a robust,
efficient,
and responsive media application
using this framework?
I introduce you to the
notion of the static model.
It's used for media inspection
and media discovery.
We perform loading
only upon your request,
asynchronously,
and when the value is available,
you'll get a callback.
Once the value is loaded,
it does not change.
This is not to say that you can't ask for
values synchronously on a static model.
You just may be waiting
a really long time,
and your application will be
perceived to be unresponsive,
or on iOS,
you risk media services being terminated.
Thank you.
The two examples of objects that we
saw that adhere to the static model
notion are AV Asset and AV Asset Track.
I then introduce you to the
notion of a dynamic model,
which is part of the lively
playback environment.
The objects that I introduced
that adhere to this model are
AVPlayerItem and AVPlayerItemTrack.
You use Foundation's NSKey value
observing interface to observe as
values mutate independently of your
requests inside a playback environment.
These protocols are really important.
They're part of a platform etiquette.
On Mac OS X,
if you don't use these protocols,
your application will
experience the spod,
or the spinning pinwheel of death.
Your application will appear
to be unresponsive and
poor-performing by your users.
On iOS, the situation's even more dire.
If you don't use these protocols,
You risk media service termination,
which will not only
affect your application,
but all the other applications that are
reliant on the shared media services.
Again,
use the AV asynchronous key value loading
protocol for static models and observe
dynamic models using key value observing.
Right.
Now I'd like to introduce you to
some of the new exciting API that
we've provided since iOS 4.
The first of which is AirPlay.
AirPlay enables your media
application to stream your
content wirelessly to an Apple TV.
We've made it really simple.
There's two methods and a property.
To enable AirPlay,
message your AV player instance
with set allowsAirPlay to yes.
To observe if AirPlay is
currently active,
observe the key value
observable property,
AirPlayVideoActive.
Now, to enhance the quality of your
transmission to your Apple TV while
AirPlay Screen is active,
you can tell the AV player
to set AirPlay Video to,
sorry, set User's AirPlay Video while
AirPlay Screen is active to Yes.
This will improve the
quality of the transmission.
To learn more about AirPlay and
more about the displays
that iOS devices offer,
stick around.
Don't go anywhere.
It's happening right here in
Presidio following this session.
Next up are media options.
There exist many ways to represent media
streams within a time media resource.
You want to be able to localize
media streams for certain users that
is inside their native language.
You might also want to
provide alternative encodings,
alternative representations
of time media for persons of
hearing or visual disability.
It's through these API that you can
provide these facilities to your user.
You might want to provide a
user interface like this one,
where you provide a set of
localized subtitles as well as a
set of localized audio streams.
This functionality is exposed
through the AV Media Selection group
and the AV Media Selection option.
These classes provide the
ability to both discover and
select from these alternatives.
Alternative audio language options
that are localized for your user.
Alternative accessibility options
for the sight and hearing impaired.
And alternative or alternate
visual media options.
Different camera angles for, say,
a sporting event.
You could provide a home stream
from a home camera angle and an
away stream for the away team.
Let's take a look at a graphical
representation of how you
work with these objects.
It starts with the good old AV asset.
Using the AV asynchronous
key value loading protocol,
You load the available
media characteristics with
media selection options.
To find out what your AV asset,
what alternatives does it provide?
Once loaded, you have a collection of
AV media characteristics.
And the values that
this may be are audible,
legible, or visual.
You select one of these characteristics
based on your application's logic.
Say you choose Audible.
And using the AV asset,
you obtain the AV Media Selection Group.
In this case, we've chosen a group that
represents the Audible options.
From the group,
you can ask for the collection
of AV media selection options,
and you can use the group to help
filter and hone in to the option
that you need for your user.
So we saw that an AV Media Selection
Group provides a collection
of AV Media Selection options.
We saw that the AV Media Selection
Group provides the ability to filter,
to hone in on a particular option,
whether the option has a particular
characteristic or doesn't have
a particular characteristic,
or whether the option's even playable.
The option details specifics about,
or properties about,
the single media stream,
such as its media type, whether it has a
particular characteristic,
or whether it's even playable.
It also details its locale.
Finally, to nominate to select one of
these options at playback,
message your AV player item with select
media option in media selection group.
Let's take a look now at a
coding example on how you
might select an audible stream,
an audible option,
inside an audiovisual media
resource for playback.
It starts with learning asynchronously
the available media characteristics
with media selection options.
Inside our completion handler,
we obtain the status for
the loading operation.
Switch over the possible values
of loading and move execution back
to the main queue because this
is an asynchronous load occurring
on some or returning execution
to you on some arbitrary queue.
We're going to be performing some UI.
We're going to be messaging the
AV Player item and AV Player.
So we need to move
back to the main queue.
We then call a helper method,
mySelectAudioOption.
mySelectAudioOption
obtains the collection of available
media characteristics within the asset,
and we do a quick little check to
see whether the asset even has any
audio ball options available to us.
We obtained the group of audible
options if the group is non-zero.
We then use the group to hone in,
to filter based on the options
that match the user's locale.
In your code,
you may not have a matching --
you may not know the matching
locale and you'll have to get
your user's preferred languages,
instantiate an NSLocale for each,
and match what's authored
into the content.
In my case, I've taken the easy out and
I happen to know what's there,
so it's my matching locale.
If the options are non-zero,
I select for playback the first of
these by messaging the AVPlayer item.
The next new API,
the next new feature set
that we provide are chapters.
Chapters are like bookmarks
in a time media resource.
They allow your user to jump to a
pre-specified and authored in point
in time within the media resource.
You use chapters to implement
a user interface like this one,
where you have a set of bookmarks,
a set of chapters,
and allow your user to jump into the
program content at any of the options.
This is exposed to the
AV Time Metadata Group class,
which provides the facility to
not only discover these chapters,
but also select from the chapters
and discover the associated artwork,
each of which localized for your user.
To use these classes,
it starts with the AV asset.
And we load asynchronously the value
for key available chapter locales.
This loads a collection of NSLocale.
We select one of these NSLocales.
and using the AV asset via the method
chapter metadata groups with title
locale containing items with common keys,
we obtain a collection of
AV time metadata groups.
[Transcript missing]
You can ask it for its items.
This is a collection of AV metadata item.
These are all static model objects.
We know how to work with
static model objects.
We use the AV asynchronous
key value loading protocol.
And we use this protocol to load the
value or to load the property value.
AV Foundation does just the work
necessary to provide you the value.
Value may be a localized chapter string
in the case that the common key is
equal to AV metadata common key title.
We have very descriptive names,
as you can see.
Or it may be the image data
itself for the chapter.
AV Foundation provides on either
platform the ability to obtain
resources from the network,
be they progressive download,
like trailers, or HTTP live streams,
like the keynote address.
AV Foundation also, on the desktop,
obviously allows you full
access to the file system.
And on iOS, you have access within
your application bundle.
On iOS,
there's additional sources of content.
You can access the camera roll of your
user to obtain videos that they may have
captured using the iOS device camera,
as well as their iPod library.
These are provided through the
Asset Library Framework and
the Media Player Framework.
To obtain references,
to obtain URLs from the
user's iPod library,
it starts off with an MP Media query.
Conveniently,
there's a convenience constructor for all
the songs within the user's iPod library.
We obtain the first item
within their library.
And then we ask the item,
the MPMedia item, to provide to us the
value for a property,
MPMedia item, property asset URL.
Once we have the URL,
we follow the four-part
recipe that we saw earlier.
To obtain videos from the camera roll,
you use the asset library framework.
It starts off with an instance
of the AL asset library object.
We enumerate through the types
of assets that it provides.
In this case,
we're interested in all the saved photos
that they have in their camera roll.
And we provide two blocks,
a block that performs the enumeration
and a block in case the user denies
access to their personal camera roll.
Looking at the first
block in more detail,
for each group that is returned,
we apply a filter.
We're not interested in all the saved
photos within our user's camera roll,
but rather we're interested
in just the videos.
So we apply an AL asset
filter for all the videos.
We enumerate the remaining
items within the group.
And for each AL asset that we traverse,
we ask for the default
representation and its URL.
Then it's as simple as
following the four-part recipe
that we know from earlier.
That's all the time that
I have with you today,
but there are so many more sessions
available to you this week.
It starts off right here in the
Presidio following this session
with AirPlay and external devices,
external displays, I'm sorry.
And later today with an
HTTP live streaming update.
Tomorrow, you can learn about composition
and editing with Working with
Media in AV Foundation.
That's happening downstairs.
There's two sessions on dealing with the
capture classes within AV Foundation.
One for the desktop and one for iOS.
For more information,
check out the documentation online.
There's a developer forum where you can
share ideas with your fellow developers,
as well as speak to a
few engineers from Apple.
And if you have further
information that you want to glean,
please email Eric Verschen,
our technology evangelist.
Thank you very much for coming,
and I hope you're all able to
develop really efficient and robust
applications using AV Foundation.